Declarative programming, is almost like a style of programming, where the user doesn't have to tell the computer exactly how to do something. For example if you are writing in SwiftUI and you use Button("Done") { done() } then that would be an example of declarative programming because you are declaring that you want a button there, however you don't have to specify how the button clicks, where it is, how it sets up by default, you basically just say you want a button. Another example would be HTML if you were to do something like <h1> This is the homepage. </h1> or something like that, that's declaratively stating that you would like a header styled text on your screen. You wouldn't have to specify the size, or how the text looks, or anything like that, you could even declaratively specify the color without having to know the RGB or anything like that. People prefer declarative programming because it makes the readability of code much more simple and doable, allowing for more people to work together and understand one another's code. When people can understand each other's code and build off of that, then we can create even more simple and more creative things, like how development for apps is growing simpler due to the development of SwiftUI, a much more understandable, human-readable, and writeable programming language designed to someday be better than UIKit, if it isn't already. Imperative Programming lets people decide what they want, exactly how they want it, with all the specifications they'd like, however the reason it was and is being pushed out of the spotlight is because it is more difficult to understand, learn, and use, especially in this day. Working together when you can barely understand what your colleague has done makes it 10 times harder to build off of it or improve it, leading to an increase in stress and decline in productivity. Imperative programming used to be the way that programming was done however Declarative programming languages are now the most opted for solution.